# CREATE Virtural Environment 

in the virual environements dir:

    pyhton3 -m venv <NAME>

this will create a virtual environement for the project.
    
    source <NAME>/bin/activate

activates the virtual env. This terminal window will run code from inside the virtual environement. At the moment the environement has nothing installed yet. not even django, so: 

# install django
go into the venv directory *$VENV_NAME*

    cd *$VENV_NAME*
    pip3 install django

will probably also ask for a pip update. I usually just do what it tells me to in this case.
create the folder for holding the actual code inside the environement:

    mk dir <src>
    cd <src>

# create django project and app
in Environments/*$VENV_NAME*/*src*/

    django-admin startproject *$PROJECT_NAME*

will create the django project and the manage.py file, from there you can use manage.py to start any apps.

    cd *$PROJECT_NAME*
    python3 manage.py startapp *$APP_NAME*

# Git repo (from vscode)

    open *$PROJECT_NAME* folder in vscode
    create new git repo form *$PROJECT-NAME* directory

it is completely unecessary to add the venv dir to git, and then to delete it is annoying.

# Generic Settings adjustments

For some reason I don't understand, it seems to be best practive to write the path names using os.path, so I import os to do that in some places.
New apps must always be added to seetings.INSTALLED_APPS or the project won't recognize them.

in the *$PROJECT_NAME*/*$PROJECT_NAME*/settings.py file:


    # in settings.py
    add: 
    import os
    # change BASE_DIR to:
    BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__)))

    #inlcude created app in installed apps
    
    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        '<MY APP>',
        ...,
    ]

    # as in BASE_DIR DB name should be changed to:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
            'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
        }
    }

    make sure static paths are correct:
    STATIC_URL = '/static/'
    STATIC_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'static/')

# Url files:
*$PROJECT_NAME*/*$PROJECT_NAME*/urls.py
is the manager of all url paths.

1. include other apps' urls by adding .include() and app name:

        # first include method must be imported
        from django.urls import path, include
        # then add it to url patterns:
        
        urlpatterns = [
            path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
            path('<comes_before_local_path>', include('*$APP_NAME*.urls')),
        ]

2. create the urls file in the app:
    *$PROJECT_NAME*/*$APP_NAME*/urls.py

    it should look like this:

        from django.urls import path
        from . import views

        urlpatterns = [
            path('', views.<index>, name='<nameforindex>'),
        ]

3. next you must create the view method and the html template for it in app/views.py
    simplest possible view:

        # in *$APP_NAME*/views.py
        def index(request):
            return render(request, '*$APP_NAME*/index.html')

# Templates

**html templates should placed inside a templates directory **

*$PROJECT_NAME*/*$APP_NAME*/templates/*$APP_NAME*/

it is important to have an *$APP_NAME* folder inside the template dir, so that django does not mixup html files with the same name from different apps. The defaul django template search into all directories named "templates".

(dir templates holds example html files.)

# Static

static files, such as CSS and JS should be placed in a static dir inside each app. 

    *$PROJECT_NAME*/*$APP_NAME*/static/*$APP_NAME*/

and, in the html you called them in by loading the static tag on the beggining of the html file:

    {% load static %}

    # then in the head:

    <link href="{% url static '*$APP_NAME*/mycss.css' %}" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="{% url static '*$APP_NAME*/myjs.js'%" ></script>


# FIRST RUN

initial run to test index page actually loads etc
    
    python3 manage.py runserver 


